README.md, before:

# README

This project is a UI for filtering down a large number of documents for eventual qualitative analysis. It is being purpose-built for looking through the 600k+ posts on Reddit's AITA forum to extract information on the norms and expectations regarding digital privacy behaviours. This README has two purposes: (1) like a normal readme, explain how to run the code; and (2) to document the building process for eventual analysis on the building process itself.

## Contribution workflow
1. Make a new branch from `main`.
2. Make your changes. Merge `main` into your branch. Solve conflicts.
3. Push your new branch and make a pull request. 

## Installation
This was only tested on Ubuntu, but you should be able to install with the following:
```
git clone https://github.com/Teleoscope/Teleoscope.git
cd Teleoscope/backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
touch auth.py
cd ../
cd Teleoscope/frontend
npm install
touch .env.local
```

Edit `.env.local` to read:

```
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://<your mongodb username>:<your mongodb password>@<your mongodb host>:<your mongodb port>/<your mongodb database>?authSource=<your database name>&readPreference=primary&appname=MongoDB%20Compass&directConnection=true&ssl=false
MONGODB_DB=<your database name>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_USERNAME=<your rabbit mq username>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_PASSWORD=<your rabbit mq password>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_VHOST=<your rabbit mq vhost>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_HOST=<your rabbit mq host>
```

Edit `auth.py` to read:

```
rabbitmq = {
	"username": "<your rabbitmq username>",
	"password": "<your rabbitmq password>",
	"host": "<your rabbitmq host>:<your rabbitmq port>",
	"vhost": "<your rabbitmq vhost>",
}
mongodb = {
 "username": "<your mongodb username>",
 "password": "<your mongodb password>",
 "host": "<your mongodb host>:<your mongodb port>"
}
```
You should receive a template .ssh config file with usernames, passwords, hosts, and ports from Paul.

## Backend Installation

First, we highly recommend setting up a virtual environment to manage your python packages. This tutorial assumes that you have Anaconda installed (https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual). Set up a new virtual environment and activate it. Then install Python 3.8 for your new virtual environment.

```
conda create --name teleoscope
conda activate teleoscope
conda install -c anaconda python=3.8
```

Then clone this repository and navigate to the backend folder.

```
git clone https://github.com/Teleoscope/Teleoscope.git
cd Teleoscope/backend
```

Install the backend requirements. If you're not using conda, you can replace "conda install" with "pip3 install".

```
pip3 install gensim tensorflow tensorflow_hub aiohttp_middlewares
conda install tqdm pymongo numpy celery aiohttp
```

Test your installation by opening up a python interactive shell, then importing the backend scripts.

```
$ python
Python 3.8.12 (default, Oct 12 2021, 06:23:56)
[Clang 10.0.0 ] :: Anaconda, Inc. on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import tasks
>>> import server
>>> import utils
```

If you see this problem:

```
>>> import tasks
[1]    69853 illegal hardware instruction  python
```

Then you'll need to download the tensorflow wheel here: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1oSipZLnoeQB0Awz8U68KYeCPsULy_dQ7

then run `pip3 install /path/to/downloaded/whl`.

If you haven't gotten all of your login credentials sorted out, now is the time to do so. See below or talk to Paul. Once you have your credentials, check your connections by running `install_test.py`. You'll be first checking whether you're connected to MongoDB, then whether you can send tasks to the RabbitMQ queue and have a worker consume them.

Login to the LEAP machine by using `ssh leap-server`. You should see something like this:

```
ssh leap-machine
Welcome to Ubuntu...<a bunch of login info>
Last login: Fri Jan  7 18:43:35 2022 from 142.103.15.6
$
```

Make sure that the repo is up to date by running the following:

```
cd Teleoscope
git fetch
git status
```

If you see:

```
On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.
```

Then you should be good to go! Otherwise, run `git pull`. All conflicts should already be handled by this point so you should be able to fast-forward; if not, ping the #teleoscope channel.

Then you can `cd` to home and run `./run.sh` to start the Celery worker. You should see:

```
 -------------- celery@leap-518 v5.1.2 (sun-harmonics)
--- ***** -----
-- ******* ---- Linux-***
- *** --- * ---
- ** ---------- [config]
- ** ---------- .> app:         tasks:***
- ** ---------- .> transport:   amqp://****
- ** ---------- .> results:     rpc://
- *** --- * --- .> concurrency: 8 (prefork)
-- ******* ---- .> task events: OFF (enable -E to monitor tasks in this worker)
--- ***** -----
 -------------- [queues]
                .> celery           exchange=celery(direct) key=celery


[tasks]
  . tasks.nlp
  . tasks.push
  . tasks.query_scs
  . tasks.query_scs_by_ids
  . tasks.run_query_init

[2022-01-08 20:36:42,126: INFO/MainProcess] Connected to amqp://***
[2022-01-08 20:36:42,145: INFO/MainProcess] mingle: searching for neighbors
[2022-01-08 20:36:43,194: INFO/MainProcess] mingle: all alone
[2022-01-08 20:36:43,225: INFO/MainProcess] celery@leap-518 ready.
```

On your own machine, now run the test script:

```
$ python
Python 3.8.12 (default, Oct 12 2021, 06:23:56)
[Clang 10.0.0 ] :: Anaconda, Inc. on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import install_test
```

On the LEAP machine, there should be a response starting and ending like this:

```
[2022-01-08 20:38:06,947: INFO/MainProcess] Task tasks.nlp[533cfbf8-b982-4fd0-b60c-137bdd616155] received
<Processing info...>
[2022-01-08 20:38:15,619: INFO/ForkPoolWorker-8] Task tasks.nlp[533cfbf8-b982-4fd0-b60c-137bdd616155] succeeded in 8.668645444791764s: 200
```

If that all worked, success! You may move on to front-end installation.

## SSH and Login

### Credentials
For now, contact Paul to ensure that you have the login credentials for the following:
- MonogDB
- Leap machine
- RabbitMQ queue

Before testing the backend connections, you'll need to create an `auth.py` module. This is just a python file that has your private information in it:

```
mongodb = {
	"username": "<mongodb_username>",
	"password": "<mongodb_password>",
	"host": "localhost:<local forwarding port of mongodb from config file, e.g., 3307>",
	"string": "mongodb://<mongodb_username>:<mongodb_password>@localhost:<local forwarding port>/aita"
}

rabbitmq = {
	"username": "<rabbitmq_username>",
	"password": "<rabbitmq_password>",
	"host": "localhost:<local forwarding port of rabbitMQ/celery from config file",
	"vhost": "<vhost name>"
}
```

### Setting up the SSH tunnel
SSH (Secure Shell) is a networking protocol that allows you to connect a port on your local machine to a remote machine. Any data you send through such an SSH tunnel is encrypted and secure. We need an SSH connection to the leap machine to securely access the MongoDB database instance running on it.

If you open a Terminal, you will be in your (i.e., the user’s) home directory. You can use `ls -a` to see all visible and hidden folders. You may already have a .ssh folder and a public-private-key pair. If not, create keys by running `ssh-keygen`. If you type `ls ~/.ssh` you should now see three files: `id_rsa` for your private key, `id_rsa.pub` for your public key and `config` for the configuration file (if you do not see a config file you can create one with `touch ~/.ssh/config`).

You should now be able to connect to the leap machine with your CWL password.

```
ssh \
-i ~/.ssh/id_rsa \
-J <your CWL username>@remote.students.cs.ubc.ca \
   <your leap machine username>@<IP address of leap server>
```

If you want, you can store your login credentials in thew config file. 

If you haven't installed a text editor yet, first install nano (or another command line text editor of your choice) with `sudo apt install nano`. You can find instructions on how to use nano here: https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-use-nano-text-editor/. Add the following to your config file using `sudo nano ~/.ssh/config`:

```
Host jump-host
    User <your CWL username>
    HostName remote.students.cs.ubc.ca
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    Port 22

Host leap-server
    User <your leap machine username>
    Port 22
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    HostName <IP address of leap server>
    ProxyJump <your CWL username>@jump-host

    # MongoBD forward
    Localforward 3307 <IP address of leap server>:27017
    # RabbitMQ remote python/celery connection
    Localforward 3308 <IP address of leap server>:5672
    # RabbitMQ STOMP connection
    Localforward 3309 <IP address of leap server>:61613
    # RabbitMQ Admin panel
    Localforward 3310 <IP address of leap server>:15672
    # RabbitMQ WebSTOMP connection
    Localforward 3311 <IP address of leap server>:15674
    # Connect to frontend on leap
    Localforward 3313 <IP address of leap server>:3000
```

If you don’t want to have to enter your password every time, distribute your public ssh key onto the jump host and the leap server using `ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub jump-host` and `ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub leap-server`.

You should now be able to connect to the leap server by running `ssh leap-server` in your Terminal.

Now, it would be easiest to test whether your MongoDB credentials are correct by downloading MongoDB Compass (https://www.mongodb.com/products/compass). You will also be able to debug any MongoDB difficulties. You must run `ssh leap-server` continuously in a Terminal to connect to MongoDB.

## Frontend Installation
```
git clone https://github.com/Teleoscope/Teleoscope.git
cd Teleoscope
chmod u+x install.sh
sudo ./install.sh
```

You should be prompted for your MongoDB URI and Database name. Right now, the URI includes password-protected information and should be requested directly from an admin. The DB is `aita`. Similarly, the system requires an SSH tunnel to work, so you'll have to also request that access from an admin. Last, run `npm run build` to test the install and `ssh leap-server` to start the ssh tunnel.

## Running
1. Connect to the LEAP Machine by running `ssh leap-server`.
2. Open a new Terminal tab and do the following:

```
conda activate teleoscope
cd /path/to/Teleoscope/backend
python server.py
```

3. Open another tab and cd to the frontend: `cd /path/to/Teleoscope/frontend`. Then run `npm run dev` for live dev builds with hotswapped code, or `npm run start` for production builds.

## Running w/ Daemon
Install pm2 (https://pm2.keymetrics.io/):
`npm install -g pm2`
Navigate to the root where your `ecosystem.config.js` file is, then:
```
# Start all applications
pm2 start ecosystem.config.js

# Stop all
pm2 stop ecosystem.config.js

# Restart all
pm2 restart ecosystem.config.js

# Reload all
pm2 reload ecosystem.config.js

# Delete all
pm2 delete ecosystem.config.js
```

Commit message:

Pl iss75 (#118)
* Fix frontend install script

* Delete .env.local~

Co-authored-by: pbucci <pbucci@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# README

This project is a UI for filtering down a large number of documents for eventual qualitative analysis. It is being purpose-built for looking through the 600k+ posts on Reddit's AITA forum to extract information on the norms and expectations regarding digital privacy behaviours. This README has two purposes: (1) like a normal readme, explain how to run the code; and (2) to document the building process for eventual analysis on the building process itself.

## Contribution workflow
1. Make a new branch from `main`.
2. Make your changes. Merge `main` into your branch. Solve conflicts.
3. Push your new branch and make a pull request. 

## Installation
This was only tested on Ubuntu, but you should be able to install with the following:
```
git clone https://github.com/Teleoscope/Teleoscope.git
cd Teleoscope/backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
touch auth.py
cd ../
cd Teleoscope/frontend
npm install
touch .env.local
```

Edit `.env.local` to read:

```
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://<your mongodb username>:<your mongodb password>@<your mongodb host>:<your mongodb port>/<your mongodb database>?authSource=<your database name>&readPreference=primary&appname=MongoDB%20Compass&directConnection=true&ssl=false
MONGODB_DB=<your database name>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_USERNAME=<your rabbit mq username>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_PASSWORD=<your rabbit mq password>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_VHOST=<your rabbit mq vhost>
NEXT_PUBLIC_RABBITMQ_HOST=<your rabbit mq host>
```

Edit `auth.py` to read:

```
rabbitmq = {
	"username": "<your rabbitmq username>",
	"password": "<your rabbitmq password>",
	"host": "<your rabbitmq host>:<your rabbitmq port>",
	"vhost": "<your rabbitmq vhost>",
}
mongodb = {
 "username": "<your mongodb username>",
 "password": "<your mongodb password>",
 "host": "<your mongodb host>:<your mongodb port>"
}
```
You should receive a template .ssh config file with usernames, passwords, hosts, and ports from Paul.

## Backend Installation

First, we highly recommend setting up a virtual environment to manage your python packages. This tutorial assumes that you have Anaconda installed (https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual). Set up a new virtual environment and activate it. Then install Python 3.8 for your new virtual environment.

```
conda create --name teleoscope
conda activate teleoscope
conda install -c anaconda python=3.8
```

Then clone this repository and navigate to the backend folder.

```
git clone https://github.com/Teleoscope/Teleoscope.git
cd Teleoscope/backend
```

Install the backend requirements. If you're not using conda, you can replace "conda install" with "pip3 install".

```
pip3 install gensim tensorflow tensorflow_hub aiohttp_middlewares
conda install tqdm pymongo numpy celery aiohttp
```

Test your installation by opening up a python interactive shell, then importing the backend scripts.

```
$ python
Python 3.8.12 (default, Oct 12 2021, 06:23:56)
[Clang 10.0.0 ] :: Anaconda, Inc. on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import tasks
>>> import server
>>> import utils
```

If you see this problem:

```
>>> import tasks
[1]    69853 illegal hardware instruction  python
```

Then you'll need to download the tensorflow wheel here: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1oSipZLnoeQB0Awz8U68KYeCPsULy_dQ7

then run `pip3 install /path/to/downloaded/whl`.

If you haven't gotten all of your login credentials sorted out, now is the time to do so. See below or talk to Paul. Once you have your credentials, check your connections by running `install_test.py`. You'll be first checking whether you're connected to MongoDB, then whether you can send tasks to the RabbitMQ queue and have a worker consume them.

Login to the LEAP machine by using `ssh leap-server`. You should see something like this:

```
ssh leap-machine
Welcome to Ubuntu...<a bunch of login info>
Last login: Fri Jan  7 18:43:35 2022 from 142.103.15.6
$
```

Make sure that the repo is up to date by running the following:

```
cd Teleoscope
git fetch
git status
```

If you see:

```
On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.
```

Then you should be good to go! Otherwise, run `git pull`. All conflicts should already be handled by this point so you should be able to fast-forward; if not, ping the #teleoscope channel.

Then you can `cd` to home and run `./run.sh` to start the Celery worker. You should see:

```
 -------------- celery@leap-518 v5.1.2 (sun-harmonics)
--- ***** -----
-- ******* ---- Linux-***
- *** --- * ---
- ** ---------- [config]
- ** ---------- .> app:         tasks:***
- ** ---------- .> transport:   amqp://****
- ** ---------- .> results:     rpc://
- *** --- * --- .> concurrency: 8 (prefork)
-- ******* ---- .> task events: OFF (enable -E to monitor tasks in this worker)
--- ***** -----
 -------------- [queues]
                .> celery           exchange=celery(direct) key=celery


[tasks]
  . tasks.nlp
  . tasks.push
  . tasks.query_scs
  . tasks.query_scs_by_ids
  . tasks.run_query_init

[2022-01-08 20:36:42,126: INFO/MainProcess] Connected to amqp://***
[2022-01-08 20:36:42,145: INFO/MainProcess] mingle: searching for neighbors
[2022-01-08 20:36:43,194: INFO/MainProcess] mingle: all alone
[2022-01-08 20:36:43,225: INFO/MainProcess] celery@leap-518 ready.
```

On your own machine, now run the test script:

```
$ python
Python 3.8.12 (default, Oct 12 2021, 06:23:56)
[Clang 10.0.0 ] :: Anaconda, Inc. on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> import install_test
```

On the LEAP machine, there should be a response starting and ending like this:

```
[2022-01-08 20:38:06,947: INFO/MainProcess] Task tasks.nlp[533cfbf8-b982-4fd0-b60c-137bdd616155] received
<Processing info...>
[2022-01-08 20:38:15,619: INFO/ForkPoolWorker-8] Task tasks.nlp[533cfbf8-b982-4fd0-b60c-137bdd616155] succeeded in 8.668645444791764s: 200
```

If that all worked, success! You may move on to front-end installation.

## SSH and Login

### Credentials
For now, contact Paul to ensure that you have the login credentials for the following:
- MonogDB
- Leap machine
- RabbitMQ queue

Before testing the backend connections, you'll need to create an `auth.py` module. This is just a python file that has your private information in it:

```
mongodb = {
	"username": "<mongodb_username>",
	"password": "<mongodb_password>",
	"host": "localhost:<local forwarding port of mongodb from config file, e.g., 3307>",
	"string": "mongodb://<mongodb_username>:<mongodb_password>@localhost:<local forwarding port>/aita"
}

rabbitmq = {
	"username": "<rabbitmq_username>",
	"password": "<rabbitmq_password>",
	"host": "localhost:<local forwarding port of rabbitMQ/celery from config file",
	"vhost": "<vhost name>"
}
```

### Setting up the SSH tunnel
SSH (Secure Shell) is a networking protocol that allows you to connect a port on your local machine to a remote machine. Any data you send through such an SSH tunnel is encrypted and secure. We need an SSH connection to the leap machine to securely access the MongoDB database instance running on it.

If you open a Terminal, you will be in your (i.e., the user’s) home directory. You can use `ls -a` to see all visible and hidden folders. You may already have a .ssh folder and a public-private-key pair. If not, create keys by running `ssh-keygen`. If you type `ls ~/.ssh` you should now see three files: `id_rsa` for your private key, `id_rsa.pub` for your public key and `config` for the configuration file (if you do not see a config file you can create one with `touch ~/.ssh/config`).

You should now be able to connect to the leap machine with your CWL password.

```
ssh \
-i ~/.ssh/id_rsa \
-J <your CWL username>@remote.students.cs.ubc.ca \
   <your leap machine username>@<IP address of leap server>
```

If you want, you can store your login credentials in thew config file. 

If you haven't installed a text editor yet, first install nano (or another command line text editor of your choice) with `sudo apt install nano`. You can find instructions on how to use nano here: https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-use-nano-text-editor/. Add the following to your config file using `sudo nano ~/.ssh/config`:

```
Host jump-host
    User <your CWL username>
    HostName remote.students.cs.ubc.ca
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    Port 22

Host leap-server
    User <your leap machine username>
    Port 22
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    HostName <IP address of leap server>
    ProxyJump <your CWL username>@jump-host

    # MongoBD forward
    Localforward 3307 <IP address of leap server>:27017
    # RabbitMQ remote python/celery connection
    Localforward 3308 <IP address of leap server>:5672
    # RabbitMQ STOMP connection
    Localforward 3309 <IP address of leap server>:61613
    # RabbitMQ Admin panel
    Localforward 3310 <IP address of leap server>:15672
    # RabbitMQ WebSTOMP connection
    Localforward 3311 <IP address of leap server>:15674
    # Connect to frontend on leap
    Localforward 3313 <IP address of leap server>:3000
```

If you don’t want to have to enter your password every time, distribute your public ssh key onto the jump host and the leap server using `ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub jump-host` and `ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub leap-server`.

You should now be able to connect to the leap server by running `ssh leap-server` in your Terminal.

Now, it would be easiest to test whether your MongoDB credentials are correct by downloading MongoDB Compass (https://www.mongodb.com/products/compass). You will also be able to debug any MongoDB difficulties. You must run `ssh leap-server` continuously in a Terminal to connect to MongoDB.

## Frontend Installation
```
git clone https://github.com/Teleoscope/Teleoscope.git
cd Teleoscope
chmod u+x install.sh
sudo ./install.sh
```

You should be prompted for your MongoDB URI and Database name as well as credentials and configuration for RabbitMQ see `.env.local` section under [Installation](##Installation). Right now, the URI includes password-protected information and should be requested directly from an admin. The DB is `aita`. Similarly, the system requires an SSH tunnel to work, so you'll have to also request that access from an admin. Last, run `npm run build` to test the install and `ssh leap-server` to start the ssh tunnel.

## Running
1. Connect to the LEAP Machine by running `ssh leap-server`.
2. Open a new Terminal tab and do the following:

```
conda activate teleoscope
cd /path/to/Teleoscope/backend
python server.py
```

3. Open another tab and cd to the frontend: `cd /path/to/Teleoscope/frontend`. Then run `npm run dev` for live dev builds with hotswapped code, or `npm run start` for production builds.

## Running w/ Daemon
Install pm2 (https://pm2.keymetrics.io/):
`npm install -g pm2`
Navigate to the root where your `ecosystem.config.js` file is, then:
```
# Start all applications
pm2 start ecosystem.config.js

# Stop all
pm2 stop ecosystem.config.js

# Restart all
pm2 restart ecosystem.config.js

# Reload all
pm2 reload ecosystem.config.js

# Delete all
pm2 delete ecosystem.config.js
```
